# MimirOCR

Mimir is a desktop application built using Tauri that connects a VueJS frontend to a FastAPI backend written in Python 3.10. Mimir leverages machine learning to automate the transcription of printed Dano-Norwegian Fraktur into a latin script. Installers have been made for MacOS (ARM) and Windows x86-64 platforms, and can be found under the Releases section of this repository page.

## Note on Code Signing
This is a summer research project through the Nordic Studies Department at Luther College, and in no way is monetized nor intended to be monetized. As a result, I have not been able to pay for the high cost of code signing and notarization. While this may change in the future, this means that both Windows and MacOS will likely flag any installer for MimirOCR and prompt users to bypass this by entering an administrator passcode. I recognize this is difficult or not possible for many academics working on managed workstations or laptops, but I do not have the resources to fix this at the moment.

### What is Fraktur?
Fraktur one of four main blackletter scripts, often referred to as gothic scripts. Of the four main blackletter scripts, being Textura, Rotunda, Schwabacher, and Fraktur, Fraktur is the most modern of these, being used in Europe from the 16th to 19th centuries. Towards the end of the 19th century, the use of Fraktur (and blackletter fonts as a whole) was starting to decline in favor of latin script, the same script we use today. From then on, less and less text was printed in Fraktur, mostly fizzling out around the end of World War II. While the script was most often used for German texts, many other European languages had texts or books published in Fraktur, whether due to popularity or access to printing presses. This was an easy choice for many Germanic languages due to the similar alphabet shared between many of them. One of these langauges to have many texts printed in Fraktur was early Norwegian, dubbed Dano-Norwegian.

### What is Dano-Norwegian?
Dano-Norwegian is the precursor to Modern Norwegian. Historically speaking, the geography of Norway made it so that many Norwegian communities were isolated from each other and had difficulty trading with or traveling to other settlements. As a result, very few Norwegians recieved educated in the 19th century, and those who did recieved their education in Copenhagen or other European countries, not Norway. This meant that early forms of written Norwegian were applications of the Danish language to Norwegian speaking patterns, thus being called Dano-Norwegian.

### Why Dano-Norwegian Fraktur?
As previously mentioned, many scandinavian texts were printed in Fraktur due to the similar alphabet. For example, there several papers written on the transciption of Swedish Fraktur, which has an alphabet even more similar to German than Dano-Norwegian has. However, Dano Norwegian has several characters that no German Text has, namely: Æ æ Ø ø. Because of this, and the seemingly smaller volume of printed Dano-Norwegian Fraktur overall, I did not find many published attempts to automate the transcription of Dano-Norwegian Fraktur, barring services like Transkribus.

### Significance
Many Norwegian Americans who emigrated in the 19th century continued to read and write in Norwegian, specifically Dano-Norwegian. This means that many printed texts by Norwegian Emigrants have been written in Dano-Norwegian Fraktur. The script is not impossible to read normally, but is difficult enough that it is often not worth attempting to learn how to directly read Fraktur. Hand transcription of Fraktur, though effective, takes time and effort that students, professors, or interested individuals could likely invest in more productive efforts. The automation of the transcription of Dano-Norwegian Fraktur allows for these texts to be read and distributed without investing hours into hand transcriptions of the text and makes them accessible to those who don't speak Norwegian or Danish through external translation tools like Google Translate or DeepL.

Copyright (C) 2026 Matthew Rogness
